in the Middle East Israeli media is
reporting that a local leader of hamas's
military Wing has been killed in an
Israeli air strike in the occupied West
Bank Palestinian media confirmed the
attack saying four other people were
also killed when a vehicle was struck
near the city of tulup comes as the US
says it's stepping up America's military
presence in the Middle East deploying
additional warships and fighter jets as
Regional tension grows the Department of
Defense says it aims to strengthen
protection for US troops in the region
and Israel in response to Growing
threats from Iran and Iranian packed
Fighters while Iran and its allies have
promised imminent retaliation against
Israel an announcer on Iran State tv
said on Friday night that in the coming
hours the world would witness
extraordinary scenes and very important
developments while the announcement came
after a funeral ceremony in Qatar for
the Hamas political leader Ismael hania
who was killed in Iran on Wednesday
Hamas and Iran have outow revenge for
the strike that targeted Mr hania
although Iran and its allies have blamed
Israel prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
has not claimed responsibility for his
death let's speak to our correspondent
intell Jenny Hill hi Jenny let's start
with the American uh preparations talk
us to what we know about what they're
doing yeah the US has said that it will
be sending an extra Squadron of fighter
jets to the region um as well as
warships stating that America's
commitment to Israel's defense is quote
Ironclad now it's not the first time
we've seen such a scenario perhaps
you'll remember that in April uh Iran
fired more than 300 drones and missiles
at Israel Israel was able to intercept
them shoot them down with the help of
the Us and other allies nevertheless it
is a reminder of just how dangerous and
significant this moment is I'm here in
Tel Aviv on the beach front where it all
looks and feels very relaxed people
getting on with their daily lives but
people here are uneasy we know that Iran
has vowed along with its proxies revenge
for two assassinations that of the Hamas
political leader and a senior Hezbollah
Commander everyone knows something is
likely to happen but it's not clear what
that retaliation will be what kind of
scale we'll see or indeed when it might
happen so this is a country on high
alert um a number of International
Airlines have suspended flights to and
from Israel and ministers in the Israeli
cabinet were sent home this weekend with
satellite phones um for use in the event
of an attack which throws out any kind
of communications Network um as you know
there's urgent diplomacy going on right
now to try to stop Israel war on Gaza
which began um following the October 7th
attacks from exploding into a region
wide conflict and that's why the US's
intervention now is not only about um
providing help to Israel militarily but
also focusing on ongoing efforts to try
to diffuse the tension um the Pentagon
spokeswoman said yesterday um that they
still think escalation is not an
inevitability um America urging all
parties in this to look at potential for
a ceasefire um it's worth remembering of
course that you know there are two
groups of people um in all of this whose
voices have become somewhat lost in the
geopolitics people in Gaza because don't
forget Israel's war on Gaza goes on
there were people killed there last
night in a number of strikes um those
people know that right now a ceasefire
looks very remote and then there are the
families of Israeli hostages who are
being held captive by Hamas in Gaza
still they know that a chance of being
reunited with their ones um it's greatly
diminished right now um one potentially
positive note Benjamin Netanyahu the
Israeli Prime Minister has sanctioned an
Israeli delegation to travel to Cairo
potentially as early as this evening for
ongoing negotiations on a possible
ceasefire but as I say right now tension
is high the world is watching the Middle
East and hoping that a crisis can be
averted and Jenny just briefly could you
talk us through what we know about the
events in the West Bank
there yeah um it reports suggest that um
a local leader of hamas's military Wing
in one part of the West Bank so not a
senior figure um has been killed in an
Israeli uh strike um it's also I think
serving to illustrate the fact that
normal daily events are going on here as
you know um the Israeli Defense Forces
are committed to dismantling Hamas it's
struck
it's leadership so they keep going after
any Hamas um anyone within the
leadership chain although we we believe
this chap was very Junior within that
particular structure also worth pointing
out that the daily exchange of fire um
from Hezbollah and Southern Lebanon and
the Israeli defense fors in Northern
Israel continues you know um people talk
about an escalation there's already a
lot of violence going on um on an hourly
daily basis um in this part of the world
the fear of course that any escalation
could see that violence explode into a
very um different level Jenny thank you
very much for that we're going to take a
look at the wider geopolitics now we can
speak to mun Abu Noah retired Jordanian
Air Force General thank you very much
for coming on the program thank you uh
talk us through your reaction to the US
at re sending the reinforcements
through this is sort of a a
demonstration at the same time putting
pressure uh on hisbah
Iran uh and to prevent a wider uh
escalation of the war so that's what's
uh but will this change the his and
Iranian regarding the retaliation of
hania killing that was a
great insult for Iran so I think the
retaliation is coming I I can't de to
end with this uh uh
situation probably in two weeks time
that's normally the Iranian patient for
the call and they calculate everything
carefully before committing anything and
what kind of what do you expect from the
retaliation what kind of decisions will
Iran be
making I think it's going to be
different like uh the previous one
shooting 300 missile
or the ballistic missile same time they
will use this uh mainly in high value
Target or center of gravity Target in
Israel uh everything will be calculated
not to expand or widening up to a
regional conflict because if this happen
and nobody can control that in a way uh
there will be a catastrophe in in the
Gulf area mainly with these all Field
closing B Mand and Heros by Iran the
whole world will be stopped in that
matter and I think the American they
need more troops uh uh like three to
four carrier in in the area and almost
400,000 Soldier to conduct such a war
and I don't think the
alliance America cannot conduct a war in
the region with no Alliance and and I
don't think with the diplomacy ET trying
to contain the matter and uh not to
widen up the escalation this is the main
thing okay and as Iran calculates its
next step and other countries in the
region wait for that what is the role of
other countries in the region which
countries specifically will be saying
what to whom
here the Middle East is shattered
country they
the attack and uh same time Iran and its
Alliance
Brooky uh they want to finish this job
and you know stop the war in Gaza hisbah
said stop the war in Gaza and will stop
the attacking Israel that's the main
thing and I don't say I don't see that
the war in Gaza will stop or a ceasefire
will reach because uh without without
knowing exactly what's the day after in
Gaza Israel is committing a genocide and
gazan people C the whole world so that
so uh it would be difficult and I think
this is if it stayed like this this will
be an endless war and Forever War that's
the way I see it it's very hard to fight
ideas and the gazan and the paltin and
it's from generation to generation they
will k carry on resisting that Israel is
became sort of uh I'll say it clearly a
threat to a
regional stability and Security in our
part of the world they have to go for
diplomacy solve the
problem ceasefire on G Etc otherwise
tension violence
extremism will will build up in our part
of the world AB Noah thank you very much
for coming on the program thank you
thank